# Premier-League-Predictor
In January 2020, I decided to design a program to predict the finishing position of all teams in the English Premier League, inspired by a program run by FiveThirtyEight, a site specializing in predictive analysis (https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/soccer-predictions/premier-league/). The goal of the program is to provide, in real time, the percentage odds that each team will finish 1st, 2nd, etc. this season, and to compile these results in a readable and practical manner.

This program uses a random number generator, in combination with pregame expectations, to simulate each remaining game in the league's season. At its simplest, if team 1 is playing team 2 and has a 60% chance of winning, a random number generator will produce a value between 1% and 100% - any value of 1%-60% will be treated as a win for team 1, while any value of 61%-100% will be treated as a win for team 2. Over time, I updated the model in an effort to provide more realistic results. At the moment, it uses FiveThirtyEight's power index ratings to predict each team's expected goals, which in turn are used to predict each team's actual goals, giving the final result. The program simulates every game for the remainder of the season, then uses the results to determine each team's finishing position. This process is repeated 10,000 times, and the results are compiled to provide each team's odds of ending the season in each finishing position. 

Initially, I tried to design the process using Excel, however I quickly found that it significantly limited performance. Using Excel, I was storing enormous amounts of data in cells that would be far better as temporary variables, quickly deleted in loops. Eventually I decided that C++ would be better suited for the project, since I had some experience coding with it, and it is computationally powerful. This has provided vastly superior results, although there is still room for improvement. The current code produces reasonable odds, with relatively quick runtimes. However, it takes a substantial amount of time to input the data needed to run the program - the current table, team ratings, and the future schedule. My next goal is to simplify this process, allowing the program to quickly update in real time. I've considered several options for downloading data from online sources into C++, and am also thinking about switching to JavaScript. 
